Good to Great Notes

CH1
1. Missing a point.  The business needs to fill a positive business need.  Must align with Biblical principles.
2. Technology driven change plays no role. Maybe. Not true when new technologies are disruptive.
3. Circuit City is dead. Did the company go off course in following principals or were there externalities that caused its failure?
4. Don’t think they quite discovered “the physics” of good to great.
5. Maybe there is no great.
6. What are the conditions that let problems of commitment, alignment, motivation,and change melt away?
7. How does this match to the Guy Kawasaki ‘cut the crap’ worldview.

CH2
1. Intense professional will + humility - is this the combination? A focus on the business, not self?
	a. Similar to startups - grow the pie, not be concerned with your slice of the existing pie.
	b. Is this a focus on execution? - The need to produce results
2. Must a Level 5 leader embody all the rest?  Is it only for the CEO?
3. Set up successors for success
4. Must the Level 5 leader come form inside the company?
5. What is the role of luck in Level 5 leadership success?
	a. Several CEOs refer to it
	b. How do they view things?  Do they create their own?
	c. The window and the mirror
6. Where do we find Level 5 leaders?

CH3
1. Put the right people on the bus.
	a. How to anage and motivate people largely goes away.
2. Rigor of decisions needed
	a. It’s who you pay, not how you pay them.
	b. It’s which executives you have to compensate to begin with
	c. Get the right people on the us in the first place.
3. Rigorous not Ruthless
	a. GTG firms rarely use head chopping.
	b. How to be rigorous
4. When in doubt - keep looking, don’t hire
	a. The throttle on growth companies is the ability to get and retain the right people
5. When you know you need to make a people change, act.
6. Put your best people on you biggest opportunities, not your biggest problems
7. Building your opportunities is the only way to become great.

CH4
1. Kroger continues to respond to data - chainging their own stores and buying and changing other chains.
2. Addressoraph - vision alone is not enough, nor is having a charaismatic leader
3. Expending energy to motivate people is a waste of time.
4. Lead with questions, not answers. Understand why.
5. Engage in dialogue and debate, not coercion
6. Conduct autopsies, without blame.
7. Build "red flag" mechanisms. - Its the fire alarm in the building.
	 a. The key - turning information into information that cannot be ignored.
	 b. Emerge from adversity even stronger.
8. Stockdale Paradox - “You must never confuse faith that you will prevail in the end - which you can never afford to lose - 
      with the discipline to confront the most brutal facts of your current reality, whatever they might be.”
   a. The optimists didn’t make it.
   b. Come back from difficulties not weaker, but stronger

CH5
1. The hedgehog idea - too simple or what if they have the wrong simple idea?
	a. He lists Marx as a 'hedgehog' - his one bad idea is responsible for the death of millions.
	b. Marx and Adam Smith had conflicting 'simple ideas'
	c. Not impressed with his selection of hedgehogs.
	d. p.95 - notes "Just because it's simple, doesn't mean it's right."
	e. The companies in the book had the 'right' idea.
2. The Hedgehog Concept: The intersection of three circles
	a. "What you can be the best in the world at"
	b. "What drives your economic engine"
	c. "What are you deeply passionate about?"
3. Not a goal to be the best, but an understanding of what you can be the best at.
4. Just because something is your core business, it does not mean you can be the best at it.
	a. Hedgehog concept is not the same thing as core competence
5. You do not need to be in a great industry to become a great company.
	a. Successful because of profound insights into their economics.
	b. "If you could pick one and only one ratio - profit per x - to 
	    systematically increase over time, what x would have the greatest 
	    and most sustainable impact on your economic engine?
		i. Profit per store vs. profit per customer
		ii. Profit per loan/profit per deposit vs profit per employee
		iii. Profit per mortgage vs profit per mortgage risk level
	c. Use the question of the denominator to gain understanding and insight into your economic model.
6. Why did comparison companies never see the fog lift?
	a. They never asked the right questions prompted by the three circles.
	b. They set their goals and strategies more from bravado than from understanding.
7. Growth is not a Hedgehog concept
	a. The rigt concept and decisions will create momentum.
8. Getting a hedgehog concept is an iterative process - 4 years on average.
9. The Council for getting to a Hedgehog concept
	a. Who should be on it?
	b. How many companiies have tried this and failed - to find the concept or found the wrong one?

CH6
1. Combine entrepreneural spirit with culture of discipline to achive greatness
2. Do this within the three circles defined in the Hedgehog concept
3. Unplug the extraneous
4. Manage the system not the people.
5. "The point is to first get self-disciplined people who engage in very rigerous thinking, who then take disciplined action within the framework of a consistent system designed around the Hedgehog Concept."
6. "Everyone would like to be the best, but most organizaitons lack the discipline to figure out with egoless clarity what they can be the best at and the will ti di whatever it takes to turn that potential into reality.
7. "Few companies have the discipline to discover their Hedgehog Concept, much less the discipline to build consistently within it."
8. Budgeting is a discipline to decide which arenas should be fully funded and which should not be funded at all.

CH7
1. I remember the Internet boom and bust.
2. How do you think differently about technology?
3. The application of selective technology driven by the Hedgehog Concept.
4. Technology becomes an accelerator of momentum.
5. Mediocrity results first and foremost from management failure, not technological failure.
	a. You can't remain a laggard and hope to be great.
6. Throughout business history, early technology pioneers rarely prevail in the end.
	a. This pattern of the second (or third or fourth) follower prevailing over the early trailblazers shows up through the entire history of technological and economic change.
7. Technology cannot turn a good enterprise into a great one, nor by itself prevent disaster.
8. Why did the good -to-great companies maintain such a balanced perspective on technology, when most companies become reactionary, lurching and running about like Chicken Little, as we're seeing with the Internet?
	a. Those who turn good to great are motivated by a deep creative urge and an inner compulsion for sheer unadulterated excellence for its own sake.

CH8
1. The flywheel - always a slow invisible build up internally.
2. Patience and persistence to follow the fly wheel.
3. Abbot - blue plans - managing Wall Street expectations
	a. Under promise over deliver
	b. Continuous improvement
4. Let the flywheel do the talking
	a. No need to explain the end goal
	b. People will extrapolate
5. The doom loop
	a. Always changing direction
	b. New programs and motivation
6. Two key issues
	a. Misguided use of acquisitions
	b. Leaders undoing the work of previous generations 
7. Use acquisitions as accelerator not creator of momentum.